# Do Fewer Clouds Mean that Humans are not Contributing to Warming Temperatures?
*Article Reference*

Richard, K., 2021. 2001-2019 Warming Driven By Increases In Absorbed Solar Radiation, Not Human Emissions. *Watts Up With That*, [blog] 18 October. Available at: <https://wattsupwiththat.com/2021/10/20/2001-2019-warming-driven-by-increases-in-absorbed-solar-radiation-not-human-emissions/> [Accessed 23 October 2021].

This blog-style article argues that the warming of the global temperature seen between the years 2001 and 2019 is primarily a result of increased solar radiation absorption from a lack of cloud cover (decreased albedo) rather than any anthropogenic sources. The author makes use of four peer reviewed journal articles from various scientific journals, some well respected, and claims that the data published within them shows that human mediated climate forcings are of no concern and are not responsible for the warming temperatures. Obviously, this is an interesting argument to make as it goes against most of the published literature, which suggests that human activity is impacting the climate of the Earth. Furthermore, this article is an example of reporting only results that support the argument of the author - making it an excellent case study that highlights the importance of fact-checking information and referring to the primary literature. 

Even before researching this topic there was considerable concern regarding the level of bias and accuracy of the information reported in this blog. Before researching more into this topic I was able to discern a considerable level of bias from the author of the blog based on the tone of the writing and the manipulation of figures from the cited peer-reviewed papers. No information on the author besides a Twitter account with 5000 followers and a biography stating “climate science researcher” could be found - this account consistently posts papers that supposedly show there is no evidence of anthropogenic climate change. While the papers cited in this article come from peer-reviewed journals, the interpretation of the data by the author is incomplete. For example, the author cites a figure from Loeb et al. (2021), but removes the portion that disagrees with their claim (Figure 1).

